-*- outline -*-

             $Date: 2000/11/25 13:23:34 $ Mikio Nakajima/中島幹夫 <minakaji@osaka.email.ne.jp>
                                                         　　　　 <minakaji@pdx.ne.jp> 
	     $Id: INSTALL,v 1.21 2000/11/25 13:23:34 czkmt Exp $ 

* APEL 

APEL (A Portable Emacs Library) is required to install SKK.  Make sure
you have APEL 10.3 or later (It is highly recommened that you install
the latest release).  APEL is available at:

    ftp://ftp.jpl.org/pub/elisp/apel/ 
or
    ftp://ftp.m17n.org/pub/mule/apel/

* custom

Make sure you have a correctly working version of custom with SKK.

** GNU Emacs 20 or XEmacs

If you use GNU Emacs 20 or XEmacs , SKK works correctly without any
modifications or additional packages.

** GNU Emacs 19.32 or later

*** If you DO NOT WANT to use SKK customization feature,
you have to do nothing.  pcustom.el of APEL (required in
skk-foreword.el) will find that you use the old custom and provide
emulation features by tinycustom.el.

*** If you WANT to use SKK customization feature,
see this subsection diligently.

Custom package is originally bundled with GNU Emacs 19.30 or later.
However, programmer's interfaces of that custom (old custom) are
totally different from ones of its current versions, and the old
custom does not work with SKK.  For instance, the old version does not
have a `defcustom' or `defface' interfaces.  So if you want to use
custom features, you should get a current version that work well on
Emacs 19.32 or later (19.30 and 19.31 does not work!  See next
section.), `custom-1.9962.tar.gz'.  It is available at: 

     ftp://ftp.dina.kvl.dk/pub/Staff/Per.Abrahamsen/custom/

Apply patch skk-11/patch/custom-1.9962.patch to cus-face.el of the
package.

Applications compiled with custom require the same version of
"custom" at load-time (and run-time).  Therefore, if you use "new
custom", you must always include "new custom" in your load-path.  The
easiest way to achieve this is "subdirs.el"; if you installed "new
custom" in `/usr/local/share/emacs/19.34/site-lisp/custom/', put the
following line to `/usr/local/share/emacs/19.34/site-lisp/subdirs.el'

     (normal-top-level-add-to-load-path '("custom"))

** GNU Emacs between 19.28 and 19.31

GNU Emacs 19.30 and 19.31 have `old custom' and 19.28 and 19.29 do not
have custom package.  And these Emacsen do not work with
`custom-1.9962.tar.gz'.

On those Emacsen pcustom.el will find that you do not have a custom
package, and require tinycustom.el, so you have to do nothing.  After
loading tinycustom.el, all `defcustom's defined in SKK package will be
equal to `defvars'.

* Get dictionaries and copy them to ./dic subdirectory.

If you do not have SKK dictionaries, get them from 

  http://openlab.ring.gr.jp/skk/dic-ja.html

and copy them ./dic subdirectory.  You don't have to get all size of
dictionaries.  Maybe you want one of them.

* Edit SKK-CFG.

Edit SKK-CFG as you like.  Default value to be defined in SKK-MK is
described and commented.  If you use one of the variable, comment out
it, and specify your value.  Maybe you need not to edit Makefile at
all.  All customization can be done in SKK-CFG.

Or you can specify configuration of installation in the command line
instead of editing SKK-CFG (See next section).

* Run make

Run

    % make

You can specify Emacs command name in the command line. For examples,

    % make EMACS=mule

Also, in the command line you can specify any variables of capital
letters defined in SKK-MK.  For examples, if you want to install SKK
locally,

    % make PREFIX=~/

then all Emacs lisp programs will be installed into
`~/share/emacs/site-lisp/skk'.  You can examine SKK-CFG to know what
variables will effect install configuration.  All of those values
described in SKK-CFG (but commented out) are default. 

* Detect directories to be install

If you want to know target directories to install without actual
installation, run

    % make what-where

or

    % make what-where-package

for XEmacs package install.  As to package install, see section
`package install' below.


* make install

Run `make install' (You may have to be superuser).  You can specify
Emacs command name in the command line, like

    % make install EMACS=mule

* package install

If you want install SKK as a XEmacs package, run 

    % make install-package

* Obsolete check

Many variables/functions names have been changed.  You are strongly
recommended to load skk-obsolete.el and

    M-x skk-obsolete-check-all-files.

* Easy setup

You can easily setup SKK.  Put the following form in your .emacs.

   (require 'skk-setup)

[End of INSTALL]
